TheSeahawks' defense overwhelms the Patriots' offense with its collective speed, physicality and athleticism. The "Legion of Boom" -- and Kam Chancellor, in particular -- bullies Julian Edelman, Brandon LaFell and Danny Amendola while also putting a blanket around Rob Gronkowski to force Tom Brady into a miserable day.Bill Belichick prides himself on being ready for anything. But there is no game plan that can fully solve random, improvised plays by a superior athletic quarterback. So much of Seattle's success this season came on plays that aren't repeatable. Russell Wilson will eventually slow down, but for now he's one of the toughest quarterbacks to contain since Randall Cunningham roamed the Earth.What will emerge as the longest-lasting mark that Bill Belichick and Tom Brady make on the NFL? The quiet whispers that maybe at least some of those victories are somehow tainted by a step across the line that separates getting an edge on an opponent from putting one over on them?  Or the meticulous attention to detail and the relentless push forward that has generated 14 winning seasons in 15 years and six Super Bowl appearances?  There is littlequestion that this is a legacy-defining game for Belichick and Brady. Both are certain future Hall of   Famers, but they are now moving in even more rarefied air. Win Super Bowl XLIX,and a strong argument can be made that they are the best coach-quarterback combination in history. They will have four titles,with a 10-year space separating the most recent two,a stunning testament totheir consistency in an era of constant personnel turnover,much of it precipitated by Belichick himself.Seattle has beaten every great quarterback and every great offense. They're absurdly mentally resilient (as we saw against the Packers in the NFC title game), and even though I'm proposing such a high score, it's still true: defense wins championships.In Pete Carroll, Bill Belichick faces another opposing coach who doesn't shy away from aggressive decisions in big moments. The Seahawks blitzed Aaron Rodgers in a number of key spots in the NFC Championship with great success. Carroll will make aggressive calls on the goal line or in late-game situations when many coaches step back. Earl Thomas told Around The NFL this week that facing Rodgers was the best possible preparation for Brady. Like Rodgers, Brady wins from the neck up.Rob Gronkowski is the key to the Patriots offense, and the Seahawks are uniquely qualified to stop him. They know not to give Gronkowski a free release off the line of scrimmage, and they have two safeties (Kam Chancellor and Earl Thomas) that can take on Gronk in coverage. Chancellor is enjoying an epic playoff run, violently disrupting opposing offenses like an All-Pro. It's rare to see any one player play this aggressively and well this often.This week marked the 15th anniversary of Belichick's hiring by owner Robert Kraft,   the critical moment for a franchise whose existence now seems unimaginable without the coach. Whatever suspicions remain after the latest investigation is over,there is one unassailable truth in the NFL:Time keeps marching on,and Belichick and Brady never lose a step.Like Earl Thomas, Patriots safety Devin McCourty is one of the best "centerfielders" at preventing big plays. But Russell Wilson and his underrated wideouts present a unique challenge. The Patriots, like so many others, figure to put extra defenders in the box to slow down Lynch. That leaves one-on-one matchups on the outside, and those often break down while Wilson is extending plays.The Seahawks offense can lull defenses to sleep before suddenly exploding for back-to-back 35-yard gains like in the NFC Championship. While Wilson is not necessarily the best quarterback yet at anticipating throws, few players throw a sexier deep ball.Brady is the first player to start 6 Super Bowls,and a victory would     tie him with Terry Bradshaw and Joe Montana for the most by a quarterback all time. Brady used to be the best when it comes to pocket presence. Andrew Luck has taken that crown, but Brady delivered more completions this year while being hit than in recent seasons.Belichick is already the winest postseason coach in history. He is tied with Don Shula for most SuperBowl appearances.Together,Brady and Belichick have been to the AFC Championship Game nine times in the thirteen seasons Brady has been the starter(notcountingthe full season he missed with a knee injury, when Belichick, in what might have been his finest coaching effort, coaxed 11 wins out of a Matt Cassel-led squad).Looking over my notes from the season, the most surprising repeat scribbling concerned Tom Brady's footwork and movement. There's just no denying he made more plays this season after avoiding pressure and extending plays. He is a far cry from Russell Wilson, but Brady's combination of getting rid of the ball quickly with improved evasiveness led to an excellent season.Rob Gronkowski is an all-time great player at his peak. His injury history hurts some of his early "best ever" arguments, but he's not injured now. He's the biggest matchup nightmare in the league and he gives the Patriots so many options on every play. He is what makes this offense go, and his health this late in the season makes this Patriots team far different than the squads that have come up short lately.